^_^Title^_^Republicans, meet your new front-runner^_^Story^_^Editor's note: James Carville is a Democratic strategist who serves as a political contributor for CNN, appearing frequently on CNN's &quot;The Situation Room&quot; as well as other programs on all CNN networks. Carville remains active in Democratic politics and is a party fundraiser. Today's big winner is Donald Trump. His news conference this morning was an utterly brilliant performance in which he claimed, with considerable justification, that he alone was able to get the president of the United States to accomplish what no one else could, not the Clintons, not the press, not anybody: the release of President Obama's &quot;long form&quot; birth certificate. Trump then parlayed this remarkable feat into something even bigger, taking the Saudis and the Chinese to task to increase oil production and to fairly value their currency, respectively.There is no question that today's events gave Trump a huge political opening. It is also agreed by all, including myself, that despite his exceptional brilliance on this morning of April 27, he would be a completely disastrous nominee for the GOP.My mother, Ms. Nippy Carville, was an accomplished bridge teacher and always cautioned her students to &quot;review the bidding&quot; before the play. In keeping with her advice I would like to review these facts:We have seen various forms of proof, from contemporaneous newspaper articles announcing his birth to verified statements from Hawaiian officials and certified legal documents that have allowed all of the major news organizations to determine and report beyond any reasonable doubt that President Obama was born in Hawaii on August 4, 1961.Yet the political world came to a standstill as the president of the United States appeared personally to deal with what has to be the most idiotic issue in the history of politics. Was it, as they claim, that the administration was so driven to the point of distraction that members were no longer able to focus on the multitude of serious issues facing the country? Or is there another explanation that makes more sense and would lead one to hope that the White House is smarter than it looks?With these bids duly reviewed and the bluffs factored in, even Ms. Nippy would surely conclude that these facts &quot;trump the trick.&quot;So, in the words of Jack Cafferty, &quot;Here's my question to you:&quot; What motivated the White House to become a part of the spectacle at this stage in the game? Was the posting of the birth certificate an intentional move to bolster the political standing of Donald Trump? This is one Democrat that hopes it was, as it would demonstrate a political move of great sophistication and overall strategic brilliance.The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of James Carville.Loading weather data ...