^_^Title^_^What else could Washington waste four years doing? ^_^Story^_^Washington House Speaker John Boehner's office took aim at Senate Democrats for what he sees as their failure to pass a budget over the past four years.Why stop there?There are plenty of other things that Washington politicos could have accomplished in that time. Here's just a smattering of wonky ways to pass the time.63.47 - The number of times you could watch the must-see TV presidential debates — including that seemingly unending series of GOP primary debates — if you watched one per day. Of course, this presumes 23 in the last cycle weren't enough for you. Why on Earth anyone would actually watch that many requires an entirely different calculus.1,402 - Number of times you could have watched all 23 of the presidential debates during the last cycle back to back. No tally on the ocular surgery you might need if you actually committed to do this.8 - The number of six-month general election face offs between President Barack Obama and GOP presidential hopeful Mitt Romney "we the people" could have witnessed. See above reference on ocular surgery — might even need ear surgery, too.4 - The number of year-long protracted congressional showdowns over Obamacare replete with handwringing, heated town halls and other hullabaloo.16 - The number of three-month negotiations the bipartisan congressional "super committee" could have held before not cutting a deficit reduction deal.Obama signs bill warding off fiscal cliff3.69 - The number of times Congress could have spent 13 months avoiding dealing with the fiscal cliff before letting it go down to the wire.440 - The number of bills the 112th Congress could have passed if its track record was extended over four years. Impressed? Don't be. The 111th Congress could have passed 766 bills in that same period.21 moments that defined the campaign and America73,000 - The number of minutes you could spend watching, and rewatching, and yes, rewatching former President Bill Clinton's Democratic National Convention speech if you vowed to watch it once a day. That's quite a bit more than the 48,180 minutes you could spend watching his 1988 DNC speech which, at the time, was razzed for its lengthiness.