^_^Title^_^'Heart attack waiting to happen' isn't always obvious^_^Story^_^If you're not overweight, eat pretty well and exercise now and then, you might think you're in good heart health. But doctors say you don't have to look like a heart attack waiting to happen to be one.Tom Bare, 54, is a case in point. The high school science teacher was thin, active and ate well, but still needed open-heart surgery this spring to bypass blocked coronary arteries.&quot;I had taken care of myself, taken care of my body,&quot; Bare said.Bare received a telltale warning sign this spring when he went for a jog outside his Lincoln, Nebraska, home.&quot;Made it about three tenths of a mile and then had the classic symptoms. Chest pain ... and then pain down the left arm and shortness of breath,&quot; Bare said. That's what prompted him to see his doctor. Within days, he was scheduled for surgery.&quot;He's at risk for heart attack just because of the amount of plaque that he has,&quot; said surgeon Ed Raines just before performing a quintuple bypass on Bare.Bill Clinton: Omnivore to veganFamily historyBare has a strong family history of heart disease: His mother's parents both died of heart attacks, and his mother and brother both required heart surgery, he said.Still, he was trying to do everything right. He was on a statin medicine, which he said had lowered his cholesterol from just under 300 to 125. Total cholesterol of 240 or above is considered a risk factor for heart disease.Also, Bare's typical diet was better than most: oatmeal for breakfast, fruit for lunch, chicken or Mexican food for dinner.He didn't smoke. He was not overweight or diabetic.&quot;Friends are saying if there's anybody in the group that shouldn't be going through this, it would be me, because of my lifestyle,&quot; Bare said. But, he added, &quot;My brother has gone through this. My mom has gone through this. I knew it was coming.&quot;Dr. Dean Ornish, who has researched the relationship between lifestyle and health, says even the most malignant family history can be overcome.&quot;I don't think anyone is doomed to have heart disease,&quot; said Ornish, founder and president of the Preventive Medicine Research Institute.&quot;You know, even if your mother and your father and your sister and your brother all die from heart disease it doesn't mean you need ever to die from it,&quot; he added. &quot;It just means you need to make bigger changes in your life than someone else who doesn't have those kinds of genes.&quot;For someone like Bare, that might mean adopting a plant-based diet, Ornish said.Heart attack-proof diet?Red flagBare was worried enough about his heart health that he underwent a coronary calcium scan four years ago. The test showed plaque building up in his coronary arteries. &quot;My score was 111,&quot; Bare said. Zero is the best score. Five is the average score for someone his age. A score over 100 meant an elevated risk of heart attack. He had another coronary calcium scan this year. His score was up to 243. A survey by the American Heart Association suggests many are misguided about their heart health. Some 39% of Americans think their heart health is ideal. The actual number is less than 1%, said Nancy Brown, CEO of the heart association.Will you have a heart attack? Tests that can tell&quot;We're very concerned because we're seeing the risk factors associated with cardiovascular disease increasing,&quot; Brown said.FutureBare has returned to school part-time until he regains his strength and he's hoping bypass surgery has given him a new lease on life. The science teacher says he'd like to travel, maybe see a volcano erupt.&quot;I'm told that I'm good for another 40 years or so, and I'm hoping that's the case, but with my history, I'm going to have to watch it,&quot; Bare said.Even so, Bare said he has no plans to give up the food he loves.Loading weather data ...