^_^Title^_^Recipe Makeover: Meatloaf with ketchup^_^Story^_^(CookingLight.com) -- Meatloaf is a family favorite and with good reason.There's something about the moist texture and the sweet ketchup topping that children and adults love. When it's put on a plate with a side of mashed potatoes to dip into, everyone is happy. Most recipes use fatty cuts of meat, but it's still possible to keep your meatloaf moist and delicious while cutting out much of the fat in the recipe. The key ingredient: turkey. Cooking Light: Make it meatloaf  Here's some feedback Cooking Light received from a reader:&quot;This is one of the better turkey meatloafs I have had. The mushrooms made for a great texture and the sauce was good, too. I didn't find it to be too spicy. Make sure you drain some of the liquid from the mushrooms before you add it to the turkey. It will be in my regular rotation,&quot; Tim writes.Cooking Light: 10 surprisingly health foods Spicy Turkey Meat Loaf with Ketchup ToppingIngredients 1 tablespoon butter 2 cups chopped onion 1 (8-ounce) package presliced mushrooms 3 garlic cloves, chopped 3/4 cup panko (Japanese breadcrumbs) 1/4 cup fat-free, less-sodium chicken broth 3 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 1 tablespoon low-sodium soy sauce 1 tablespoon Sriracha (hot chile sauce, such as Huy Fong) 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1 1/2 pounds ground turkey breast 1 large egg, lightly beaten Cooking spray 1/2 cup ketchup 1 tablespoon brown sugar 1/8 teaspoon dry mustard 1/8 teaspoon ground nutmegPreparation1. Preheat oven to 350&deg;.2. Melt butter in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add onion, mushrooms, and garlic to pan; cook 8 minutes, stirring occasionally. 3. Remove from heat; cool 5 minutes.4. Combine mushroom mixture, panko, and next eight ingredients (through egg) in a large bowl; stir well to combine.5. Shape turkey mixture into a 9 x 5--inch rectangle on a broiler pan coated with cooking spray.6. Combine ketchup, brown sugar, mustard, and nutmeg in a small bowl, stirring with a whisk. Spread ketchup mixture evenly over top of meat loaf; bake at 350&deg; for 40 minutes or until a thermometer registers 160&deg;. Let stand for 10 minutes before serving.Wine note: The topping is much like an Italian red sauce. Crane Lake Sangiovese 2006 ($5) from California, a lighter-bodied red, is an especially good choice with lean turkey and quite refreshing with spicy flavors. -- Jeffery LindenmuthNutritional Information Yield: 8 servings Serving size: 2 slices Calories: 184 Fat: 3.7g (sat 1.6g,mono 1g,poly 0.5g) Protein: 23.2g Carbohydrate: 15g Fiber: 1.2g Cholesterol: 69mg Iron: 1.3mg Sodium: 405mg Calcium: 30mgMore Recipe Makeovers from Cooking Light  Enter for a chance to win in our $5,000 Grocery GiveawayCopyright 2011 Cooking Light magazine. All rights reserved.Loading weather data ...