^_^Title^_^Meet the six pack^_^Story^_^Twitter and Facebook as they train to race the Nautica Malibu Triathlon with Dr. Sanjay Gupta on September 8.About me: I am a 57-year-old mother of three, grandmother of six (seven by the end of April). I am the warden of a medium-custody male correctional facility in Colorado. I will be retiring on October 1, three weeks after the triathlon. I look at this challenge as an amazing opportunity to get in the best shape of my life for the best part of my life!Ultimate goal: To successfully complete the Nautica Malibu Triathlon, have a BMI in the normal range and motivate and inspire others in the same way that previous Fit Nation team members have inspired me.About me: I am an Army veteran and single dad. I'm also a smoker. I have traveled the world since I was born, and I love learning about different cultures and countries. I want to see more of the world with my son, which is why I wish to live a long and healthy life.Ultimate goal: Not only do I wish to excel in each triathlon category (swim, bike, run) throughout my course of training, I want to have the ability to dominate in the race at Malibu. I want to stop all of my bad habits and keep them away for life! I am truly grateful for this opportunity and hopeful I will set a good example for others with my success.About me: I am the vice president of business operations for a nonprofit health agency. I'm married to an incredible husband and the mother of an energetic 7-year-old daughter. After years of battling ulcerative colitis, I am trying to regain the active lifestyle I once had. I might not have a colon, but I still have heart.Ultimate goal: To be fit, confident and able to call myself a triathlete. To be a role model for my daughter. To cross that finish line in Malibu.About me: After learning I was unable to donate a kidney to my twin sister because of my weight, I spent 2012 losing more than 100 pounds. That journey has led me to discover who I want to be. I'm still not at my desired fitness level or goal weight, but I will be. Fit Nation is a dream come true for me; finally, I will be an athlete.Ultimate goal: To reach my goal weight of 150 pounds. I want to run across the finish line in Malibu with my fists in the air and the biggest smile ever on my face. I want to live the rest of my life as a fit, healthy and active adult. I want to run weekend races, go biking in Tuscany, go zip lining in Hawaii. Life was meant to be experienced, and I want to do it all!About me: A teacher by trade, I became a sudden cardiac arrest survivor on October 22, 2011 -- the day that changed my life forever. The support from my friends and family has been strong, but the most important key to my health has been missing: me. I'm here to prove that there is life after heart disease, and that it is possible once again to become the athlete I was long ago.Ultimate goal: To reduce my daily medications from 10 prescriptions to three. I also want to reach my goal weight of 165 pounds, become a public speaker to promote the awareness of sudden cardiac arrest and heart disease and finish the Nautica Malibu Triathlon in September.About me: I'm originally from Texas, but I moved to Nevada to continue working as a biologist. With a single-minded pursuit of my education and my profession, I severely lost focus on my health. I'm here to reset my priorities, to set an example for others that might be lacking focus and to become part of a great team and a Fit Nation.Ultimate goal: When I read about the lifestyle choices and warning signs that inevitably lead to complex health problems, I find that I'm really reading about myself. I want to make the lifestyle changes that will add not just years to my life but life to my years. Crossing the finish line in Malibu is one major step in my journey to take control of my health and my life.Photographs by John Nowak/CNNLoading weather data ...