^_^Title^_^Update on salmonella cases by state^_^Story^_^Federal and state agencies are tracking the rising number of reported cases of Salmonella enteritidis, which has been linked to the current egg recall. Here's the latest information provided by some state health departments:ArizonaThe state has seen a twofold increase in salmonella reports, with an uptick beginning in June, said Dr. Joli Weiss, food-borne disease epidemiologist for the state Department of Health Services. The state has seen 51 cases this year; normally it has reports of one to three a month, she said.California&quot;We have several hundred cases confirmed in California,&quot; said Michael Sicilia of the California Department of Public Health. &quot;This is the most common type of salmonella and we can't confirm if they are all related to eggs.&quot;&quot;There are probably more, but we haven't heard from those people yet,&quot; he said.The outbreaks in California are particularly clustered in Santa Clara, Los Angeles and San Diego counties, Sicilia told CNN.ColoradoThe Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment issued this in a statement: &quot;Colorado epidemiologists noted that over the past two months there has been an increase in reported cases of this strain of Salmonella enteritidis. Historically, an average of seven cases of this strain are reported in Colorado during the months of June and July. However, in 2010, a total of 28 cases were reported in June and July. Some of this increase likely is linked to this egg recall and includes cases from a recent outbreak involving The Fort restaurant in Jefferson County.&quot;MinnesotaThe Minnesota Department of Health reports seven cases, according to health official Doug Schultz.Nevada In southern Nevada, 30 salmonella cases have been reported since January, four times the usual number, according to CNN affiliate KLAS-TV. It's unclear if they're linked to the egg recall. But several restaurants told 8 News NOW that they will only serve pasteurized eggs which come mixed in a carton, not a shell.Loading weather data ...