^_^Title^_^Race day tips from an Ironman champ^_^Story^_^Editor's note: Chrissie Wellington is a four-time World Ironman champion and a guest coach for CNN's Fit Nation Tri Challenge. Her autobiography, "A Life Without Limits," is available on Amazon.The race is almost upon us.The CNN Fit Nation athletes are waiting with anticipation to stand on their first start line in the Nautica Malibu Triathlon. And I'm here to offer some last-minute words of wisdom handily packaged into 25 race day tips. (Yes, 25 -- Tolstoy wrote novels that were more concise!)I would like to sum up the list with the most important tip: Don't do as I have done in the past (recall the "sinking in the borrowed wetsuit" debacle) and try anything new on race day.7. Set two alarms (gentle sound, rather than a blaring buzzer is best) for an early-morning wake-up call. Have a warm shower to wake yourself, and your body.8. Eat breakfast around 2 ½ hours before your race start time. Aim for about 300-400 calories, with low fiber, simple carbs and a small amount of fat and protein.11. If you wear bike shoes, sprinkle talcum powder inside and loosen the straps. Then either:a) clip them into your pedals; orb) place them next to your bikeI also sprinkle talcum powder inside my running shoes to help soak up excess water and prevent blisters.12. Leave time to get into your wetsuit. Liberally apply lubricant to areas prone to chafing and also on your ankles to make wetsuit removal easier. Use a rubber glove or a plastic bag to apply lube, as it will prevent your hands from getting oily.13. Buy some cheap, throwaway slippers/flip flops to wear down to the swim start. This helps avoid cold feet (literally) and prevents any cuts on sharp objects. Have two pairs of swim goggles at hand, one for bright sunlight and one for dull days (you also have a pair for emergencies in case the strap breaks).14. When you transition from swim to bike, put your sunglasses on first, then your helmet. This way they will be under the helmet straps and won't get knocked off when you pull your helmet off in the second transition.17. Begin and finish the bike in a lower gear than you plan to race in. Use the hills, corners and aid stations to sit up and/or get out of the saddle. This variation in position will help you to recruit different muscles and prevent fatigue and discomfort. Race at YOUR pace.20. Constantly check yourself. Relax your shoulders, face, neck and arms and hands. Tension in these areas manifests in tightness throughout the body. I hold gels in my hands to stop me clenching my fists.21. Use the water, ice and sponges at aid stations to help cool your body on a hot day. These can also be shoved down your race top, under your hat or down your shorts.22. Only use positive words and affirmations. Have a mantra and a couple of special songs/poems to repeat over and over again. I write my mantra on my water bottle and on my race wrist band to give me a boost.You should draw heavily on positive images -- family, friends, holidays, past races, a plate of chips, and recall times when you have struggled and overcome hurdles/hurt. This gives you the confidence that you can overcome dark times and come out the other side.23. Break the race up into smaller, more manageable segments. You might even think only about getting to the next aid station or lamppost and from there set another landmark goal. Stay in the moment and don't think too far ahead.24. Draw on the energy from the spectators (including all the CNN FitNation support crew) and the other athletes, as well as the spectacular views of the Pacific Ocean and the mountains. Dedicate each of the last few kilometers to people you care about.25. Remember every moment of the finish chute and celebrate when you cross the line. A timing chip records your time, so look up, smile, and let the race photographer get a picture to savor!Ironman champ: Your mind matters more