^_^Title^_^China's next leaders: Who's who^_^Story^_^Cheng Li of the Brookings Institution, CNN profiles the top contenders.Xi studied chemical engineering and went on to serve as a personal secretary to the then minister of defense Geng Biao. His early political career took him from his native province to Hebei and later Fujian, where he served as vice governor in 1999, before being promoted to governor a year later.China's Top Future Leaders to Watch. "Yet he has also displayed strong support for 'big companies,' especially China's flagship state-owned enterprises," Li added.Li Keqiang looks set to replace Premier Wen Jiabao in March 2013, when the reshuffle of government posts is formalized. Li is already the seventh-ranked member of the Politburo Standing Committee after rising through the Communist Youth League, a training ground for party leaders. replace disgraced party chief Bo Xilai as leader of Chongqing in March 2012.U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, which claimed he was implicated in efforts to conceal the SARS epidemic. Railways were also under his portfolio during the public outrage that followed the collision of two high-speed trains in July 2011.U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission said Zhang's sudden appointment to Chongqing may indicate that he won't be on the short list for the Politburo Standing Committee. If he is, Brookings expert Cheng Li said he may "continue to promote policies in favor of the development of state-owned enterprises, state monopoly and so-called indigenous innovation (economic protectionism)."Li Yuanchao is considered a strong contender for entry into the Politburo Standing Committee, the small team of men steering China's future policy.decisive and inquisitive" and possessing a "wicked sense of humor," Wang Qishan currently serves as the vice premier in charge of economic, energy and financial affairs under Premier Wen Jiabao. 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. Brookings Institution.Brookings Institution.fishing village of Wukan in 2011. Wang bowed to villagers' demands, returned some contested land and allowed local democratic elections to be held for the first time in China. The unusual move earned Wang a place on TIME's 2012 list of the 100 Most Influential People in the World. Bo Xilai.Brookings Institution, Wang was born into a humble family. As the eldest child, Wang is said to have started work at age 17 to help support the family after his father's death. His political talent was spotted early when he became mayor of Tongling while in his early thirties.U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission.Brookings Institution, Liu's father introduced Jiang's adoptive father to the Communist movement in 1928. Liu is said to be a close supporter of President Hu Jintao, who she met four decades ago while a political councilor at Tsinghua University, according to the U.S. think tank.Brookings Institution, Hu is considered a "carbon copy of Hu Jintao." "Both come from humble family backgrounds, both were student leaders in their college years, both advanced their political careers primarily through the CCYL, both worked in arduous work environments such as Tibet, both served as provincial party secretaries at a relatively young age and both have low-profile personalities," the think tank said.  Hu was married in Tibet and has one daughter.U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Hu is considered by many to be a front-runner to succeed Xi Jinping as the party leader and president in 2022. However, it said competition from more senior party members and factional pressure may put him in line for a "less dramatic" promotion to the full Politburo.Brookings Institution. Liu's son, Liu Lefei, heads CITIC Private Equity Funds Management and was last year named by Fortune Magazine as one of the 25 most powerful business people in Asia. The young Liu is married to Jia Liqing, the daughter of Jia Chunwang, the former chief of state security, according to research from the Brookings Institution.U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission said his prior experience makes him a "natural candidate" to succeed Li Changchun as head of the "Propaganda and Ideology" policy portfolio.Loading weather data ...