^_^Title^_^An awards show unlike any other^_^Story^_^Televised award shows normally celebrate athletes and entertainers for their latest career accomplishments.But on Sunday night, the roles will be reversed.For the fifth straight year, celebrities will join CNN in honoring 10 everyday people who are working to make the world a better place. "CNN Heroes: An All-Star Tribute" airs live at 8 p.m. ET from the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles."It's incredible to see the amount of hard work and humility that these people have, uplifting the people around them," said actor Rainn Wilson, who has attended the show in previous years. "Their stories are always the same: They're a normal person, they're doing a normal job ... and they see a need."Celebrities participating in this year's show include comedians Jerry Seinfeld and George Lopez; actors J.R. Martinez and Chris Colfer; musical artists Ice Cube and will.i.am; model Christy Turlington Burns; former NFL quarterback Kurt Warner; and actresses Laura Dern, Mary-Louise Parker and Sofia Vergara.Kid Rock will be performing the song "Care" from his platinum-selling album "Born Free," while Miley Cyrus will be performing her triple-platinum hit "The Climb."Martinez, an Iraq war veteran who recently won the latest "Dancing With the Stars," will co-host the red-carpet show with A.J. Hammer of HLN's "Showbiz Tonight." Actress Holly Robinson Peete will be hosting a social media suite on the red carpet.During the show, Dr. Sanjay Gupta will be conducting exclusive backstage interviews that can only be seen on CNN.com or your mobile device. Join the conversationWho are this year's Heroes?War widows, "motel kids" and the working poor are among the many people who have been helped by this year's Top 10 CNN Heroes.All of the Heroes were nominated by CNN viewers for their hard work and commitment.Each person in the Top 10 receives a $50,000 grant. At the end of the tribute show, hosted by Anderson Cooper, one of the Top 10 will be announced as the CNN Hero of the Year and receive an additional $250,000.The Hero of the Year was chosen by the public in an online vote that ended Thursday. Fans can still make a direct donation to their favorite Hero by using Google Wallet. Google is waiving all transaction fees to make sure 100% of the donations go directly to the Heroes' nonprofit organizations.This is the fifth year CNN has conducted its annual search for CNN Heroes. In those five years, the campaign has profiled more than 160 people on CNN and CNN.com. And there have been roughly 40,000 nominations received from more than 100 countries."We hope to empower these selfless individuals to persevere in their humanitarian efforts to create progress," said Jim Walton, president of CNN Worldwide.Here are the Top 10 Heroes of 2011, in alphabetical order: