^_^Title^_^State-by-state developments related to Hurricane Irene^_^Story^_^For more on this story, got to WIVB: New York clobbered by Irene, WWLP: Woman rescued from flooded car, WHDH: Beach turned into boat graveyard, and WCAX: Storm puts dam in jeopardy. Many states along the eastern seaboard worked to clean up and assess damage Monday in the wake of Hurricane Irene, even as some braced for further flooding. Here is a look at some of the latest developments in the states most affected:CONNECTICUT-- Connecticut officials worked to clean up following flooding and major power outages-- The Connecticut National Guard took Gov. Dannel Malloy on a flight for an aerial view of Irene's damage-- More than 600,000 customers were without power as of Monday morning DELAWARE-- Officials were working to clean up and restore power, after Gov. Jack Markell said Sunday that the state had &quot;lots to do to respond, recover &amp; repair.&quot;DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA-- Washington was open for business, but 14 public schools remained closed due to lack of power, Mayor Vince Gray said. MAINE-- Two bridges will remain closed indefinitely in Carrabasett Valley, Maine's governor's office said Monday.-- Shelters remained open across the state-- As of 6 a.m. ET, there were about 200,000 power outagesMARYLAND-- &quot;Overall, we came through Irene very well, but we have to keep working,&quot; Gov. Martin O'Malley tweeted Monday morning.-- While the storm dumped 12 inches of rain by early morning, there was no major flooding in Ocean City. Some sections of the city were without power.MASSACHUSETTS-- Massachusetts transit resumed its regular schedule Monday morning, officials said. The transit authority worked closely with Boston officials to prioritize cleaning roads traveled by Transit Authority buses.-- Gov. Deval Patrick toured damage in Greenfield, in the northern part of the state.-- As of Monday morning, more than 360,000 customers were without power.NEW HAMPSHIRE-- New Hampshire authorities called on residents to take precautions and heed local evacuation orders and warnings amid the threat of flooding in Irene's wake.-- At least 90,000 customers were without power as of Monday morning.NEW JERSEY-- More flooding is predicted in New Jersey as rivers crest.-- Gov. Chris Christie called on residents to work from home Monday if possible. Several roads remained closed due to flooding and damaged roadways.-- As of Monday morning, more than 300,000 customers were without powerNEW YORK-- In New York City, government offices were open Monday. Beaches and pools remained closed, the mayor's office said. Roads in Central Park were closed to vehicular traffic. The city's subway system and the area's three major airports reopened Monday. -- All state buildings were in good condition and open, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said.-- Several hospitals in New York City reopened. But Manhattan VA hospital planned to remain closed as of Monday morning.-- Seven families who thought they had escaped the wrath of Irene were stranded Monday morning in New York's Catskill Mountains after bridges crumbled all around them. The 23 people -- including two pregnant women, seven toddlers and three infants -- were stuck with no electricity and a dwindling supply of food.-- As of about 10 a.m. ET, 945,000 customers were without power, Cuomo tweeted. New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said about 38,000 customers were without power in the City.NORTH CAROLINA-- Gov. Beverly Perdue requested a federal disaster declaration for Beaufort, Carteret, Craven, Dare, Hyde, Pamlico and Tyrrell counties on Monday.-- &quot;More than 100 homes and structures along the Northeast Cape Fear River near Burgaw are at risk for flooding through Tuesday afternoon,&quot; the state government said in a news release. &quot;The Cashie River has already crested, but continues to pose flooding problems for Windsor. The Tar River is expected to crest Tuesday with minor flooding expected in Tarboro, Greenville and other areas.&quot;-- The flooding left about 2,500 people stranded Sunday on Hatteras Island in the Outer Banks.-- Several areas, including some beaches, were reopened for business and tourism on Monday, officials said.-- Officials at Camp Lejeune were working to restore power and clear streets to return to normal operations, said 1st Lt. Nicole Fiedler, a spokeswoman for the 246-square-mile U.S. Marine installation.-- Nearly 300,000 customers were without power as of about 11 a.m. ET, the state said.PENNSYLVANIA-- The storm came during the wettest month in the history of Philadelphia, so the ground was already saturated. -- More than 400,000 customers were without power as of early Monday morningRHODE ISLAND-- More than 300,000 customers were without power as of Monday morning.VERMONT-- Some normally tranquil streams were raging early Monday, inundating towns and washing away four iconic covered bridges. Virtually every waterway in the state is flooded.-- 263 roads were damaged by the torm, Gov. Peter Shumlin said.-- &quot;The storm essentially shut southern Vermont down,&quot; state police Capt. Ray Keefe said.-- At least 37,000 customers were without power as of Monday morning.VIRGINIA-- Virginia Gov. Bob McDonell reported numerous sites of damage from Irene, including in the area around Sandbridge. -- The Virginia Department of Emergency Management warned people to be cautious of wild or stray animals, which could be disoriented and dangerous. -- More than 600,000 customers were without power as of Monday morning.CNN's Tom Cohen, Alexander Hunter, Phil Gast, Greg Botelho, Stephanie Gallman, Kristina Sgueglia, Chris Boyette and Rich Phillips contributed to this report.Loading weather data ...