^_^Title^_^Ten terror cases since 9/11^_^Story^_^The alleged plot to blow up the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is the latest terror case to emerge since the September 11, 2001, attack on the United States. Here are 10 others over the last decade:2002 -- Pakistani-American Iyman Faris, a truck driver in Columbus, Ohio, was convicted of providing material support to al Qaeda for his role in a plot to attack the Brooklyn Bridge.2004 -- Ryan Anderson, a U.S. citizen and member of the Washington National Guard, was convicted of passing military information to American agents posing as al Qaeda operatives. Anderson, a convert to Islam, was arrested earlier that year at Fort Lewis, Washington.2005 -- Authorities announced that they had foiled a plot, concocted in a California prison, to use proceeds from gas station robberies to carry out terror attacks. Planned targets included military recruitment centers, synagogues and the Israeli Consulate. Kevin James pleaded guilty in 2007 to conspiracy to levy war against the government of the United States through terrorism, and to oppose by force the authority of the U.S. government.2009 -- An American citizen born Paul Hall -- also known as Hassan Abu-Jihaad -- was sentenced to 10 years in prison. In March 2007, the former Navy sailor aboard the USS Benfold was arrested and charged with providing information to a London-based group called Azzam Publications in 2001 regarding the classified movements of his U.S. Navy battle group as it traveled from California to the Persian Gulf region.2009 -- Bryant Neal Vinas, a native of New York, pleaded guilty in January 2009 to charges of aiding al Qaeda and helping attack a U.S. military base in Afghanistan, but his case was kept secret until July 2009. Authorities accused Vinas of firing rockets at the base along with others in September 2008, and of providing al Qaeda with information about the New York transit system and the Long Island Railroad. Vinas had been arrested in Pakistan late in 2008.2009 -- Four men were arrested on May 20, 2009, in what prosecutors say was a plot to bomb two New York City synagogues and fire surface-to-air missiles at U.S. military planes. James Cromitie, 44; David Williams, 28; Onta Williams, 32; and Laguerre Payen, 27, were charged on June 2, 2009, with conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction within the United States, conspiracy to acquire and use antiaircraft missiles and six other counts. They were later sentenced to 25 years in prison. The plot was uncovered in a yearlong investigation involving an FBI informant.2009 -- Three men were arrested before carrying out what authorities said was a plot to blow up crowded New York subway trains. Two men -- Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay -- pleaded guilty. Another, Adis Medunjanin, was found guilty. Prosecutors say two al Qaeda leaders ordered the plot: Saleh al-Somali, head of international operations for al Qaeda, and Rashid Rauf, a key operative. Both are reported to have been killed, U.S. officials say.2010 -- Pakistan-born U.S. citizen Faisal Shahzad parked a vehicle in Times Square rigged with an explosive device that did not go off. Street vendors tipped off police to the abandoned car. He was caught aboard a flight about to depart New York en route to Dubai. A New York judge sentenced him to life in prison. Shahzad had an MBA and was at one point a financial analyst. He was living in Connecticut.2012 -- An Iranian-American man from Texas on Wednesday pleaded guilty in Manhattan federal court to participating in a plot meant to kill the Saudi ambassador to the United States. Prosecutors said Manssor Arbabsiar, 57, tried to recruit a Mexican drug cartel to bomb a Washington restaurant where Saudi Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir dined. But the scheme unraveled when Arbabsiar's cartel contact turned out to be an undercover agent. Arbabsiar acknowledged in court to conspiring with members of the Iranian military in the formulation of the plot and is expected to be sentenced in January.2012 -- A Moroccan man who admitted to a plot to bomb the U.S. Capitol was sentenced to 30 years in prison. Amine El Khalifi was arrested in an FBI sting last February after authorities said he donned a suicide vest and accepted an automatic weapon in a parking garage near the Capitol complex. The vest and the gun had been rendered inoperable by law enforcement.