^_^Title^_^Conrad Murray invites Katherine Jackson to visit him in jail^_^Story^_^Los Angeles Conrad Murray, the doctor convicted in Michael Jackson's death, is inviting the late pop star's mother to visit him in jail to "answer any questions she might have."Murray extended the invitation Tuesday night in a statement released to CNN through his lawyers, Valerie Wass and Michael Flanagan.."I've been told that she has a desire to speak with me before she departs this life," Murray said. "Seeing that she is up in age and in questionable health, and the fact that she is the mother of a very dear departed friend, it would give me great pleasure to sit with her one on one and answer any questions she might have."Murray was sentenced to four years in prison last November after a jury convicted him of involuntary manslaughter in Jackson's June 25, 2009, death.Murray, who is expected to serve at least two years in a Los Angeles County jail, said he would put Katherine Jackson's name on his visitor's list."It would put her at peace," he said. "I would do that truly out of concern for her and altruistic love and concern for others. I want to see her. I do not want Mrs. Jackson to suffer. She remains as dear to me as my own mother, unbeknownst to her."News coverage of the ongoing feud among members of the Jackson family apparently prompted Murray's offer.Jackson family drama an unwanted reality show"Although I am not permitted to see the news in jail, there are times when intermittent snippets are seen before a channel change occurs," Murray said. "I recently saw Katherine Jackson in one of those snippets. She appeared to be extremely sad. I also heard she is having a difficult time."A representative for Katherine Jackson said he would present the offer to her, but he doubted she would accept.Katherine Jackson is dealing with a major division in her family that grew larger when four of her children recently took her to Arizona for 10 days without letting Michael Jackson's three children speak to her.