^_^Title^_^10 summer movies that we're actually looking forward to^_^Story^_^(The Frisky) -- Summer is just around the corner, which means that we should brace ourselves for the usual drought at the movie house. Why does it seem like summer movies are always just a bunch of cheesy blockbusters, packed with comic book characters and explosions? Maybe it's because the film industry assumes that we're outside soaking up the sun and have lost some brain cells as a result. But for those of us who are allergic to the beach or are staging a &quot;sit-in&quot; against wrinkles, is it too much to ask that we have a few good summer film options? No, I say. I've searched far and wide for the top 10 summer movies that shouldn't suck. You're welcome.The Frisky: 10 cool guy movies gals earn points for loving1. &quot;Inception&quot; (July 16): This thriller from &quot;Dark Knight&quot; director Christopher Nolan stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Ellen Page, Marion Cotillard, and our favorite, Joseph Gordon-Levitt. It's about a group of dream thieves who slip into the subconscious minds of people while they are sleeping and steal ideas for corporate gain. Sounds insane and awesome. Two tickets for the IMAX version, please.The Frisky: 10 best movies where private parts steal the show2. &quot;The Kids Are All Right&quot; (July 7): This dark comedy is about what happens when two kids conceived by artificial insemination invite their father into their lives. Mia Wasikowska (&quot;Alice in Wonderland&quot;), Mark Ruffalo, Julianne Moore, and Annette Bening are all in it -- so we're expecting it to be smart, well-acted, and full of super-uncomfortable moments.3. &quot;Iron Man 2&quot; (May 7): With a cast like Robert Downey Jr., Scarlett Johansson, Mickey Rourke, Gwyneth Paltrow and director Jon Favreau, this sequel is bound to knock your armored suit off. It should be entertaining to watch Tony Stark try to outrun the U.S. government to protect the almighty suit.The Frisky: 10 post-breakup celeb hotties4. &quot;Sex and the City 2&quot; (May 27): Many are fearful of what this movie will feel like now that the ladies are a little older, but I'm excited to watch Carrie Bradshaw as a wifey. Oh, and ... wait for it ... Aidan's back. Will Carrie ditch Mr. Big for her old flame? I always liked Aidan better.5. &quot;Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time&quot; (May 28): No, I've never played the video game. But yes, I am prepared to see Jake Gyllenhaal's amazing torso in battle scenes. And this is a Disney flick, so you can bring the kids. Gladiator-ish fun for the whole family!The Frisky: 17 famous faces tattooed on random people6. &quot;Twilight: Eclipse&quot; (June 30): Don't pretend like you haven't read all the books and are dying to know if Bella is going to join Team Jacob or Team Edward for a roll in the Forks forest. May the best otherworldly being win!7. &quot;Salt&quot; (July 23): I begrudgingly add this Angelina Jolie thriller to the list. Is she a Russian spy or isn't she? I suspect we'll find out by the end of the film. Hopefully, Angelina can still impress us with her acting chops. If not, it's at least very cool that she did many of her own stunts for the flick.The Frisky: Top 10 cheatingest sports dudes8. &quot;Eat, Pray, Love&quot; (Aug. 13): In case you missed the best-selling memoir, you can follow Julia Roberts as she eats her way through Italy, prays her way through India, and finds love in Bali. James Franco, Javier Bardem, and Billy Crudup won't be too hard on the eyes, either. If the film is as satisfying as the book was, we should all walk away from the theater slightly more enlightened than when we took our seats.9. &quot;Scott Pilgrim Vs. The World&quot; (Aug. 13): Let's say you hated Eat, Pray, Love. Instead, catch this quirky flick based on a graphic novel called Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life. A young rocker boy has to defeat a bunch of ex-boyfriends to get the girl of his dreams. Perfect for a scorching hot August afternoon.The Frisky: 8 celebs rejected by Playboy10. &quot;You Will Meet A Tall Dark Stranger&quot; (Sept. 23): It should still be summerish in September and I am huge Woody Allen fan ... so I had to include this one. Nobody does neurotic romances like Mr. Allen. Naomi Watts, Anthony Hopkins, Josh Brolin, and Antonio Banderas star in this movie about a family's complicated love lives and problems. Sounds like classic Woody Allen. What better way to say &quot;welcome!&quot; to fall?What movies are you looking forward to this summer?TM & &#169 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights ReservedLoading weather data ...