^_^Title^_^Golden Globes' 10 best dressed stars^_^Story^_^(InStyle.com) -- At Sunday night's Golden Globes, Hollywood's biggest stars displayed a dazzlingly eclectic mix of gowns from beneath the shelter of umbrellas. No one trend ruled the rain-soaked red carpet -- instead, the dresses that made our list ranged from a classic old Hollywood number to a slinky cut-to-there halter. Here are our top picks:We loved Penelope Cruz's figure-flaunting black lace-trimmed Giorgio Armani Prive gown; she channeled &quot;Nine&quot; costar Sophia Loren's '60s-era style perfectly. Adding over 60 carats of classic Chopard diamonds made Cruz the epitome of Old Hollywood (...or, perhaps Old Rome?) glamour.Award winner Sandra Bullock wowed us in a violet Bottega Veneta gown -- a classic, strapless cut updated with an unexpected sheer skirt. She complemented the shimmering design with gorgeous 40-carat shoulder-sweeping blackened-gold earrings and a 20-carat gray diamond ring from Lorraine Schwartz.InStyle: Best Golden Globes hair and makeupNewly-engaged nominee Emily Blunt was a blushing future bride in a trailing pink ruffled number from Dolce &amp; Gabbana. Further completing the ultra-romantic vision -- aside from fiance John Krasinski, that is -- were pastel Lorraine Schwartz cuffs and a Ferragamo clutch.Heidi Klum's ensemble was all about the ice, from her 100 carat diamond Lorraine Schwartz choker to the shade of her pale blue, curve-hugging, Swarovski crystal-studded gown from Roberto Cavalli. (The cost of the eye-popping necklace? A mere $3.5 million.)InStyle: Top 8 fashion trends from the Golden GlobesIn contrast to her trademark boho glam, presenter Kate Hudson went clean and crisp in a sculptural Marchesa gown with an origami-inspired bodice. The choice worked, and we loved her Stephen Russell jewelry, particularly the pearl and diamond tassel earrings.&quot;Inglourious Basterds&quot; actress Diane Kruger supplied her signature dose of edgy femininity in a softly pleated ombre Christian Lacroix Haute Couture gown with a structured bow at the waist. She accented the standout design with Chanel Fine Jewelry and a Raven Kauffman Couture clutch.Presenter Jennifer Garner showed off her flawless body in a shimmering Versace gown. Although she joked that the weather made it &quot;an Aquanet kind of day,&quot; the actress looked no-fuss, no-muss elegant in her formfitting choice, which she accessorized with Bulgari diamonds.Her role as scorned wife in &quot;Nine&quot; behind her, Marion Cotillard was all seductress in Chopard diamonds and a John Galliano for Christian Dior gown. Our favorite detail? The lace-edged slip revealed by the thigh-high slit.Nothing goes better with a pixie cut than a dose of '20s flapper flair -- &quot;Big Love's&quot; Ginnifer Goodwin embodied the decade in a knee-baring Vionnet design (what an amazing shade of cobalt!) with deco-inspired Neil Lane diamonds.&quot;House's&quot; Olivia Wilde may have been &quot;very comfortable&quot; in a cut-to-there Gucci gown, but we think she was equally as daring. She accessorized the gunmetal dress, one of the night's sexiest, with Tiffany &amp; Co. jewelry and a Judith Leiber minaudiere.InStyle: See more dresses from the 2010 Golden GlobesBut more important than the glamour at the Globes was the attention stars brought to the devastation in Haiti. In a true sign of substance over style, Artists for Peace and Justice co-founder Olivia Wilde, Meryl Streep, Amy Poehler and a host of other celebrities will donate their outfits for an auction to fund relief efforts. As Penelope Cruz said on the red carpet: &quot;If we are here, we have the obligation and the responsibility to talk about it. Tonight cannot be just about the movies.&quot;Loading weather data ...