^_^Title^_^Riesch doubles up with slalom gold in Vancouver^_^Story^_^Germany's Maria Riesch added slalom gold to her super-combined title as her great friend and rival Lindsey Vonn went out on the first run at Whistler Mountain on Friday.Riesch dominated the event as she set the fastest time in the first leg and easily held off Marlies Schild of Austria for a double triumph in Vancouver.Sarka Zahrobska of the Czech Republic finished with a bronze after being in second place first time down, but already 0.40 seconds behind Riesch.Vonn, who has been struggling with a series of niggling injuries, missed a gate on the top third of the course and never looked likely to add to her gold in the downhill and super-G bronze.But the poster girl of the Games said she had been pleased to win her first Olympic medals.&quot;I'm happy with my performance in Vancouver. I went out there fighting -- it just wasn't my day. I didn't want to give up, that's my personality,&quot; she said. &quot;The Olympics is every four years and I wanted to win,&quot; she added.Riesch, the reigning world slalom champion, had a combined time of one minute 42.89 seconds to beat a charging Schild by 0.43 seconds overall with Zahrobska just over a second behind.She was delighted to double up and help with the German team effort as they battle the United States and Canada at the top of the medals table:&quot;I did not dare to think about a second gold and now the German alpine team has three gold. Just crazy,&quot; she said.But her younger sister Susanne ended the event in floods of tears after falling in sight of the finish while challenging for a medal and Riesch said some of the edge had been taken off her own victory.&quot;It was our biggest dream to be on the podium together. Susanne did everything for this race. So she is very upset,&quot; added the champion.BiathlonNorwegian legend Ole Einar Bjoerndalen won a sixth Winter Olympics gold medal as he anchored his country to victory in the 4x7.5km relay with Austria taking the silver and Russian in bronze.It gives him a total of 11 Olympic medals at Winter Games, second only to his compatriot Bjorn Daehlie, who earned 12 in cross country skiing. Bjoerndalen has had a mixed Games with only a silver in the 20km individual before going one better on Friday.&quot;My shooting was fantastic and I went fast and skied great. I'm really satisfied with my race. It was perfect &quot; he said.Ice hockeyCanada will get a chance to avenge its preliminary round defeat against the United States, but this time, the gold medal will be on the line.Patrick Marleau, Brenden Morrow and Ryan Getzlaf all scored for Canada in the first 24 minutes and held off a late Slovakia rally in Friday's 3-2 semifinal win.Canada will now face the Americans, who booked their place in Sunday's men's final with a 6-1 thrashing of Finland in the Canada Hockey Palace. The U.S. defeated Canada 5-3 in round-robin play.Speed skatingCanada barely edged out South Korea to win the gold in the men's 5,000-meter relay. The United States grabbed the bronze.In the men's 500-meter final, Canada's Charles Hamelin beat South Korea's Sung Si-bak to add to the host country's gold medal tally, winning in 40.770 seconds. Francois-Louis Tremblay of Canada took third, while American Apolo Anton Ohno was disqualified.In the women's 1,000-meter event, China's Wang Meng snatched the gold ahead of Katherine Reutter of the U.S., finishing in 1:29.213. South Korea's Park Seung-Hi took third.CurlingHome hopes suffered a shattering blow in the women's final as they lost 7-6 to defending champions Sweden in a dramatic finish.Canadian skip Cheryl Bernard had good chances to claim the gold in both the 10th and 11th ends but it was the greater experience of Swedish counterpart Anette Norberg that proved decisive to stun the capacity crowd. SnowboardingNicolien Sauerbreij of the Netherlands beat Russian Ekaterina Ilyukhina in the final to take gold in the slalom event, holding her off by 0.02 seconds over the two runs.Austria's Marion Kreiner grabbed bronze ahead of Selina Joerg of Germany.Loading weather data ...