^_^Title^_^Recipe Makeover: Cast-iron burgers^_^Story^_^(Cooking Light)  -- Summer means outdoor activities and more cookouts, so it also means more hamburgers. But a good burger doesn't have to be oversized or loaded up with condiments to be tasty. Here's a recipe that cuts the fat but brings out the flavor.Two secrets to the perfect burger are contained in this recipe: Salt the meat and let rest so the salt can penetrate, and shape lightly into patties that just barely hold together for a tender final product. A horseradish-mustard-mayo-ketchup sauce and bacon-caramelized onion relish for toppings don't hurt, either. These take a bit longer than your standard burger, but the magnificent results are worth it.Ingredients Serving size: Four burgersPatties: 1 pound ground sirloin 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt CookingLight.com: Best of 2010  Horseradish spread: 1 tablespoon canola mayonnaise 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard 1 tablespoon prepared horseradish 2 teaspoons ketchupRelish: 2 applewood-smoked bacon slices, chopped 3 cups vertically sliced yellow onion 1 tablespoon finely chopped chives 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepperOther ingredients: Cooking spray 4 (1 1/2-ounce) hamburger buns or Kaiser rolls 4 (1/4-inch-thick) tomato slices 1 cup shredded lettucePreparation (About 70 minutes)1. To prepare the patties, divide beef into four portions, lightly shaping each into a 1/2-inch-thick patty. Sprinkle evenly with salt. Cover and refrigerate 30 minutes.2. To prepare horseradish spread, combine mayonnaise and next three ingredients (through ketchup) in a small bowl. Set aside.3. To prepare relish, cook bacon in a large nonstick skillet over medium-low heat until crisp. Remove bacon from pan with a slotted spoon. Add onion to drippings in pan; cook 15 minutes or until golden brown. Combine bacon, onion mixture, chives, Worcestershire sauce, and pepper in a small bowl.4. Heat a large cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat. Coat pan with cooking spray. Add patties; cook two minutes on each side or until desired degree of doneness. 5. Spread 1 1/2 teaspoons horseradish spread on cut sides of each bun half. 6. Top bottom half of each bun with 1 patty, 1/4 cup relish, 1 tomato slice, 1/4 cup lettuce, and top half of bun.CookingLight.com: Spring clean your dietNutritional InformationCalories: 351 Fat: 12g (sat 3.5g, mono 3.4g, poly 3.2g) Protein: 29.2g Carbohydrate: 32.7g Fiber: 3g Cholesterol: 66mg Iron: 3.7mg Sodium: 788mg Calcium: 91mgEnter for a chance to win in our $5,000 Grocery GiveawayCopyright 2011 Cooking Light magazine. All rights reserved.Loading weather data ...