^_^Title^_^5 ways to increase your patience^_^Story^_^Saint Augustine is thought to have claimed that patience is the companion of wisdom. Increase your store of both virtues by following this advice from a truck driver, a world traveler and others who know a thing or two about serenity-threatening situations.Real Simple: How to make positive changes in your lifeTalking to yourself may feel awkward and goofy, but it quells that feeling of impatience. And it certainly beats foraging for carbs, which I'm also apt to do when I'm agitated and have writer's block. -- Brené BrownBrown is a research professor at the University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work and the author of the best-selling book "Daring Greatly." She has given one of the top 10 most-viewed talks on TED.com.Real Simple: What to say in awkward social situationsI recently visited a Vietnamese farmers' market in New Orleans. I was annoyed that it was open only between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m. and I wanted to know why. The answer? I learned that often in cultures dependent on fishing, much of the work is done before daybreak. It was good to remind myself that simply because people do something differently doesn't mean that they're wrong. -- Seth KugelKugel writes the Frugal Traveler column for The New York Times. He lives in New York City and São Paulo, Brazil..Real Simple: 5 mistakes everyone should makeFor example, my wife tells jokes and catches me up on the latest Facebook posts from friends. Or I'll talk to my dogs (they also travel with us), since they provide emotional support without offering any opinions. Those quick moments of distraction recharge me, and I can again focus on the road without being irritated. -- Wade BriggsBriggs, based in Boise, Idaho, is a commercial truck driver for Mayflower, a nationwide full-service moving company. He has been driving a truck for 18 years.Real Simple: 5 great things about growing oldThis practice can help you in other areas of life as well: By eating slowly, you can train yourself to be less impulsive and more patient in general. -- Charles CourtemancheCourtemanche is an assistant professor of economics at Georgia State University in Atlanta. He has studied the relationship between obesity and patience.Real Simple: 5 ways to win people over Knowing that I can laugh with a friend later on about, say, my deep wrinkles, calms any irritation. -- Connie SchultzSchultz is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and the author of "...and His Lovely Wife," which chronicles her experience as the wife of U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio. She lives in Cleveland.Get a FREE TRIAL issue of Real Simple - CLICK HERE!Copyright &copy; 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.