^_^Title^_^How to nominate a CNN Hero^_^Story^_^Nominations for 2013 CNN Heroes are being accepted online through August 31, 2013.It's often said that just one person can make a difference, and CNN Heroes -- everyday people changing the world -- are evidence of that.But these outstanding men and women would not have received this honor without someone taking the time to nominate them.Tell us about individuals who are giving back in your community, people whose selflessness and personal stories inspire you. Your efforts could have a big impact.Appreccia Faulkner nominated her mother, Diane Latiker, who opened her home to youth in a gang-ridden neighborhood.Jack Harvey nominated someone he met at a conference: Derreck Kayongo, who recycles partially used hotel soap and distributes it to developing countries.Marlene Jones nominated her real estate broker, Sal Dimiceli, who helps 500 people a year with food, rent and other necessities.Latiker, Kayongo and Dimiceli all became Top 10 CNN Heroes in 2011, and the global recognition brought $50,000 to each honoree. Seeing them acknowledged on the world stage was rewarding to those who nominated them."Sal makes such a difference to people in this community, I wanted someone to know about him," Jones said. When Dimiceli was honored as a CNN Hero, "I said: 'Wow! I made a difference!' "Do you know an everyday person changing the world? It's easy to nominate them as a CNN Hero. Here are some suggestions we hope will help you in crafting your nomination.• Think about what makes your hero special. Ask yourself: What makes my nominee unique? What specific accomplishment has he or she achieved that is truly remarkable? What impact has his or her work had on others? We encourage you to watch videos of previous CNN Heroes to familiarize yourself with the achievements of the inspiring individuals we honor as "everyday people changing the world."• Take a look at our nomination form. We suggest you review the information requested about yourself, your nominee and his or her work before filling out your submission.• Tell us about your hero. Take your time and write from the heart. Remember: What you share -- in your own words -- is the most important factor in advancing a nomination for further consideration. You can enter your answers to the essay questions directly on the form, or write them first in a word-processing document and "cut and paste" them into each answer field. Please note the information you provide will be used in accordance with our privacy policy.• Click "Submit." If your nomination has been successfully transmitted, you'll see a "thank you" message on your screen. If you provided us with your e-mail address, we'll also send a confirmation your nomination has been received. And yes, we read each and every one.That's it. Nominations for 2013 CNN Heroes remain open through August 31, 2013.Frequently Asked QuestionsCNN is not responsible for technical problems that may prevent your submission from being successfully transmitted. You may wish to first write and save the answers to essay questions in a word-processing document. That way, if you need to resubmit your nomination, you can "cut and paste" those answers into the form without rewriting them.Have other questions or comments about CNN Heroes? Contact us.