^_^Title^_^Of course Obama deserves a vacation^_^Story^_^Editor's note: Roland S. Martin is a syndicated columnist and author of &quot;The First: President Barack Obama's Road to the White House.&quot; He is a commentator for TV One cable network and host/managing editor of its Sunday morning news show, &quot;Washington Watch with Roland Martin.&quot;  When someone sends me an outlandish, ridiculous, asinine and flat-out dumb tweet, I will quickly give them a Stuck on Stupid Tweet of the Day award. So when it comes to those folks who are whining, complaining and making hay out of President Barack Obama taking a week off to go on vacation with his wife and children in Martha's Vineyard, let me be clear that all of you fools have earned that award!Every year, we can count on nutcases from the right throwing temper tantrums about President Obama going on vacation. And when President George W. Bush was in office, there were reliable cranks on the left who would scream to high heaven because he would spend a lot of time at his ranch in Crawford, Texas.Let's all say in unison: Shut the hell up!Folks, there is no such thing as an off day when you're president of the United States. No matter what mood he -- and hopefully one day, she -- is in, he has to get the presidential daily briefing, which breaks down the latest from the intelligence community regarding potential terrorist activity and other shenanigans taking place globally. He must deal with meetings, phone calls, and make all sorts of decisions that affect America domestically and globally.Yeah, I know that the president has a large staff. But he's in one difficult job, and when we see how much a president has aged by the time he's left office, it's clear that it's not a walk in the park.But this is the world in which we live. The stupid partisans love to go to their corner and lob rocks like some little punks, wasting precious air time taking pot shots at the president for taking a break. Will it solve anything? Nope. Is the First Family still going to go on vacation? Absolutely. So why do we waste even listening to these idiots?Look, I voted for President Barack Obama. And I voted for President George H.W. Bush. I despise stuck-on-stupid partisans who can only think of trashing the sitting president to make themselves better. This is why I can't stand the political boxes that everyone desires these days.There is such a thing as common sense and decency, but don't tell that to a nutty partisan. I'm not a liberal or conservative; a Democrat or Republican. I'm a voter who tries to make the right choice based on my values and beliefs. And I've got enough common sense to say that a one-week vacation is a good thing.See, unlike these idiots, I want a president to take some time off. I desire a president who chooses not to be a workaholic. Of course I love to see a president spend time with his wife and children, even though a visit to the ice cream shop is orchestrated like a movie production. It's healthy for the president to not be stressed so he can make the vital decisions for this country.It's a joke to listen to loudmouths on radio like Neal Boortz take shots at the president for going on vacation, when he takes time off!So, please, the next time you hear a family member, friend or some hack in the media complain about a president of the United States taking time off for rest and relaxation, just tell them to stick a sock in it. It's already hot outside. The last thing we need is more hot air.The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Roland Martin.Loading weather data ...