^_^Title^_^5 lines that killed on Day 1 of Democratic National Convention^_^Story^_^Charlotte, North Carolina Night one of the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte brought out some of the Democratic Party's established and rising stars. And it brought out people who are Democrats and stars.Among them were some notable speeches and some notable one-liners, and not from the usual suspects (cough, Rahm Emmanuel).Here are five of the best from the night:1. "If Mitt was Santa Claus, he would fire the reindeer and outsource the elves."-- Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland, referring to Democrats' argument that Mitt Romney favored outsourcing jobs while he worked at Bain Capital2. "I've worked on a lot of fun movies, but my favorite job was having a boss who gave the order to take out bin Laden — and who's cool with all of us getting gay-married. Thank you, invisible man in the chair, for that, and for giving my friends access to affordable health insurance and doubling funding for the Pell grant."-- Kal Penn, a former associate director in the White House Office of Public Engagement and actor, who took a shot at Clint Eastwood's "invisible chair" improv at the Republican National Convention last week3. "Governor Romney has undergone an 'extreme makeover,' and it ain't pretty."-- San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro, referring to Mitt Romney's perceived flip-flops4. "...to me, he was still the guy who'd picked me up for our dates in a car that was so rusted out, I could actually see the pavement going by through a hole in the passenger side door ... He was the guy whose proudest possession was a coffee table he'd found in a dumpster, and whose only pair of decent shoes was half a size too small." -- Michelle Obama on the Barack Obama she knows5. "Before I close, and as I wonder which Twitter hashtags you'll start using when I'm done talking, hash tag sexyface. I ask all you young people to join me. You don't even have to put pants on."-- Penn again, aka Robin Scherbatsky's ex-fiance on the hit TV show "How I Met Your Mother," urging young people to commit to vote via an Obama-sponsored website