^_^Title^_^What Obama said Tuesday night^_^Story^_^Washington Here is a roundup of the main themes President Barack Obama touched on during Tuesday's State of the Union address:What he said: "Send me a comprehensive immigration reform bill in the next few months, and I will sign it right away."CNN Fact Check: Illegal border crossings at lowest levels in 40 yearsObama's emotional plea might lead to vote on gunsWhat he said: "Senators of both parties are working together on tough new laws to prevent anyone from buying guns for resale to criminals. Police chiefs are asking our help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets, because these police chiefs, they're tired of seeing their guys and gals being outgunned. Each of these proposals deserves a vote in Congress.""They deserve -- they deserve a simple vote."5 things we learned from the State of the UnionWhat he said: "We can choose to believe that Superstorm Sandy, and the most severe drought in decades, and the worst wildfires some states have ever seen were all just a freak coincidence. Or we can choose to believe in the overwhelming judgment of science and act before it's too late.""I urge this Congress to pursue a bipartisan, market-based solution to climate change, like the one John McCain and Joe Lieberman worked on together a few years ago. But if Congress won't act soon to protect future generations, I will."CNN Fact Check: Wind energy breezes into the record booksWhat he said: "Here's an idea that Gov. Romney and I actually agreed on last year. Let's tie the minimum wage to the cost of living, so that it finally becomes a wage you can live on.""We know our economy's stronger when we reward an honest day's work with honest wages. But today, a full-time worker making the minimum wage earns $14,500 a year. Even with the tax relief we've put in place, a family with two kids that earns the minimum wage still lives below the poverty line. That's wrong."CNNMoney.com: The impact of $9 minimum wageWhat he said: "Beyond 2014, America's commitment to a unified and sovereign Afghanistan will endure, but the nature of our commitment will change. We are negotiating an agreement with the Afghan government that focuses on two missions: training and equipping Afghan forces so that the country does not again slip into chaos, and counterterrorism efforts that allow us to pursue the remnants of al Qaeda and their affiliates."Opinion: Address gave foreign policy short shriftWhat he said: "To hit the rest of our deficit reduction target, we should do what leaders in both parties have already suggested, and save hundreds of billions of dollars by getting rid of tax loopholes and deductions for the well-off and well-connected. ... Now is our best chance for bipartisan, comprehensive tax reform that encourages job creation and helps bring down the deficit."GOP's Rubio rips Obama, says his plans will hurt middle classWhat he said: "Yes, the biggest driver of our long-term debt is the rising cost of health care for an aging population. And those of us who care deeply about programs like Medicare must embrace the need for modest reforms -- otherwise, our retirement programs will crowd out the investments we need for our children, and jeopardize the promise of a secure retirement for future generations. But we can't ask senior citizens and working families to shoulder the entire burden of deficit reduction while asking nothing more from the wealthiest and most powerful.""We'll bring down costs by changing the way our government pays for Medicare, because our medical bills shouldn't be based on the number of tests ordered or days spent in the hospital. They should be based on the quality of care that our seniors receive."State of the Union, Twitter-styleWhat he said: "Ask any CEO where they'd rather locate and hire: a country with deteriorating roads and bridges, or one with high-speed rail and Internet, high-tech schools and self-healing power grids. The CEO of Siemens America -- a company that brought hundreds of new jobs to North Carolina -- has said that if we upgrade our infrastructure, they'll bring even more jobs. And I know that you want these job-creating projects in your districts."Obama keeps pressure on Republicans with jobs planWhat he said: "I propose working with states to make high-quality preschool available to every child in America. Every dollar we invest in high-quality early education can save more than $7 later on -- by boosting graduation rates, reducing teen pregnancy, even reducing violent crime. ... So let's do what works, and make sure none of our children start the race of life already behind. Let's give our kids that chance."5 education ideas from the State of the UnionWhat he said: "The American people don't expect government to solve every problem. They don't expect those of us in this chamber to agree on every issue. But they do expect us to put the nation's interests before party."Obama dares Congress to get the job doneWhat he said: "In defense of freedom, we'll remain the anchor of strong alliances, from the Americas to Africa, from Europe to Asia. In the Middle East, we will stand with citizens as they demand their universal rights, and support stable transitions to democracy.""But as Americans, we all share the same proud title: We are citizens. It's a word that doesn't just describe our nationality or legal status. It describes the way we're made. It describes what we believe. It captures the enduring idea that this country only works when we accept certain obligations to one another and to future generations; that our rights are wrapped up in the rights of others; and that well into our third century as a nation, it remains the task of us all, as citizens of these United States, to be the authors of the next great chapter in our American story."Analysis: Obama's vision to nudge country to the left