^_^Title^_^Searching for a &lsquo;centered&rsquo; candidate^_^Story^_^Take a slow, deep breath and, as you exhale, begin to relax. Let the tension go. See your worries float away on a cloud. Inhale and appreciate a new, fresh energy coming in. Allow yourself to imagine what could be.It's a lazy, rainy Saturday afternoon in Washington, and Palmer is lounging on a friend's futon. Splayed out beside her is a snoozing Sadie, her 10-year-old Alaskan husky who she likes to call her "director of relaxation." She brews homemade yogi tea, buys organic and, as of last fall, there is no television in her Old Town Alexandria apartment. She begins each day with a yoga set and meditation and recites mantras in her head when she runs. Phrases like "universal life force energy" roll off her tongue. &ldquo;If you had told me I was going to do this even four years ago, I would have laughed and had no idea what you meant.&rdquo;It wasn't that Palmer disliked her job, but she was stressed and grieving deeply, having lost three relatives -- her grandfather, a great-aunt and her godfather, an uncle -- in the span of a year. Again, with nothing to lose, she explored something different: She picked up a book, CD and DVD about energy medicine by Donna Eden.Bridgenosis, and she registered the trademark immediately -- "as if someone was going to grab it," she says. It would be a company that would help people and organizations turn obstacles into opportunities and use coaching, creative problem-solving, consulting and hypnotherapy to get there.Grady Frank isn't the typical sort who'd buy into what Palmer's doing, but the 65-year-old attorney can't help himself. It's 6 a.m. when Palmer and Sadie head toward Jones Point Park along the Potomac River. She grew up on the water and needs to live near it. She says it's part of her "life instruction manual" and calms her.&ldquo;I want someone to step outside of themselves, rise above this mess and see the bigger picture. It doesn't have to be like this.&rdquo;Loading weather data ...