^_^Title^_^How to dress like a princess ... for less!^_^Story^_^LA-based fashion expert and stylist Nikki Pennie has worked with labels Luella, Celine and Issa. She has the distinction in the fashion world of having introduced Prince William's bride-to-be Kate Middleton to the Issa label. Pennie has also styled the likes of Madonna and Cat Deeley. London, England She may be Britain's future monarch, but that doesn't mean Kate Middleton is restricted to wearing pricey couture pieces and designer labels.In fact, the future Princess Catherine is a huge fan of Britain's iconic &quot;high street&quot; -- a term used to describe the main shopping street in towns and cities across the UK.Kate's love affair with Britain's high street retail stores has been well documented over the years -- from the Reiss number she wore in her engagement photos to the simple monochrome Topshop dress she stepped out in on her 25th birthday.Now, Kate has been snapped by the paparazzi shopping up a storm in London's fashionable shopping high street, The King's Road, in Chelsea, only days before her wedding.And true to form, she walked right past the street's exclusive boutique stores, favoring the more popular retail stores, such as Warehouse -- where she purchased a number of summer dresses, presumably for her honeymoon, at only $100 dollars per dress.If you're in town for the royal wedding, you too can go to Warehouse and obtain the exact same dresses as Kate, if they haven't already sold out by now!In fact, it's becoming more fashionable to shop on the high street, rather than splurging $1,000 for a similar dress that is from a designer label -- and this doesn't only apply to clothing but to accessories too.Here are my top tips for looking fabulous for less:Trench coats never go out of styleYou can get a fabulous trench coat at all of the stores right now. A trench is a consistent classic that you can wear during the spring-summer with jeans or even a cocktail dress, adding a touch of effortless chic. This is a &quot;must-have&quot; item that will never let you down!Accessories are a &quot;make or break&quot;Accessories can make or break your look, so it's important to accessorize each outfit in the correct way.Never pile on the jewels. If you are wearing a simple top or dress then add a statement necklace, earrings or cocktail ring. Always add a touch of glamour with your jewelry.Kate keeps her jewelry to a minimum (apart from her stunning engagement ring). She always opts for delicate and understated earrings, necklaces or rings. The perfect place to get the most sensational jewels on a budget is Jewelmint. I am a big fan of their earrings, which look so expensive, nobody ever believes they are $29.99.The essentialsThere should be three classic essentials in every woman's wardrobe: a white shirt, a black blazer and jeans.These are timeless items that can be worn together to create a regal chic look and can easily be mixed and matched with other items in your wardrobe. For example, you can pair the blazer with a cocktail dress for the evening or with a summer dress during the day, if you are cold.Don't suffer for your fashionIt is intrinsic to anybody's style aesthetic to be comfortable! That is why you should always wear comfortable and practical high heels.Apart from the fact that Kate is nice and tall, this is why you never see her in painfully high court shoes. Uncomfortable footwear affects your posture, as well as your enjoyment!Glam it up with a clutch bagFor the spring-summer season, one of my favorite trends is the brightly colored block jeweled evening clutches and day bags.You can get the maximum impact by wearing a minimal outfit in beige, white or black with one of these stunning bags for your day or evening look.Loading weather data ...