^_^Title^_^Movie Review:^_^Story^_^"Shall We Dance" is an utterly charming Japanese comedy about the healing powers of spinning a partner around a ballroom. But the film somehow avoids being as precious as I fully expected it to be.  It isn't really fair to suggest that the movie's main subject is dance, though.  As much as anything else, it's about the healing powers (and poetry) of simple self-expression.Writer/director Masayuki Suo may be Japanese, but his subtle, withdrawn way of punctuating a joke most often reminds me of Scottish director Bill Forsyth.co-workers while pursuing something that only they can manage to fully believe in.  In this case, that would be a 42-year-old Japanese businessman's insistence on clandestinely learning to ballroom dance. We're told that it is "beyond embarrassing" for a husband and wife to dance, and to dance with someone else is "even more shameful."  In other words, don't be looking for repeats of "Bandstand" the next time you're in Tokyo.'Shall We Dance'1.1M/30 sec. Movie clip3.3M/1 min. 23 sec. Movie trailerAs the film begins, waltzing and fox-trotting are the furthest things from Mr. Sugiyama's mind.  He approaches his work (in the Japanese fashion) as if making deals and shuffling papers are acceptable substitutes for oxygen.One night, as he's riding the train home from the office, Sugiyama glances out the window and notices a beautiful, forlorn-looking young woman (Tamiyo Kusakari) gazing from the window of a dance studio.Dance class offers glimpse at another worldEventually, Sugiyama sneaks up to the dance studio, where he encounters a world that he never even expected existed.  Lessons are being given, and a wide variety of people are spinning and stumbling all over each other with total abandon.  He signs up for a course without telling anyone about it, at first to get closer to the young woman (who's a dance instructor), but eventually as a way of breaking the chains of his work-oriented social structure.Sugiyama is in awe of this strutting free spirit, and is soon startled to discover (when the man's wig falls off during one of his more frenetic gyrations) that he's actually a timid co-worker, Mr. Aoki.  Aoki is played by Naoto Tanakan, who gives one of the best comic performances of the year.There are several minor plot lines concerning the lonely members of the dance class, and a couple of them probably could have been cut, but the characters are all nicely written, and of the performances are thoroughly enjoyable.  Sugiyama's growing relationship with the beautiful instructor is at the heart of the film, and it develops in quite unexpected ways.Once again, a movie has been imported to the United States from another country that shows Americans how much novelty can be displayed by trusting simple human emotions to tell an affecting story. It's ironic that Japan gives us this, and we're about to give them a $200 million version of "Godzilla."&nbsp;Related sites:  Note:  Pages will open in a new browser windowShall We Dance - Miramax External sites are not endorsed by CNN Interactive. &nbsp;&nbsp;Search for related CNN stories:&nbsp;&nbsp;[Help]Tip: You can restrict your search to the title of a document.Example: title:New Year's Resolutions	Sound off on our  message boardsTell us what you think!You said it...	&#169; 1997 Cable News Network, Inc.All Rights Reserved.