^_^Title^_^Ephron mourned as 'brilliant' writer, humorist^_^Story^_^A roundup of the reactions to the death of author, screenwriter and director Nora Ephron, who died Tuesday at the age of 71:The best of Nora EphronSony Pictures: We are deeply saddened by today's loss of Nora Ephron, one of the most successful filmmakers of our time. Among the movies Ms. Ephron wrote and directed for the studio were "Sleepless in Seattle" and her last, "Julie &amp; Julia" in 2009. Her memory will live on in our hearts and on screen forever.Actress Bette Midler:Nora Ephron. The Hostess with the Mostest on the Ball. A brilliant soul, and we will all miss her so....Comedian Dane Cook: Nora Ephron will be missed. True class &amp; talent. Kleenex stock just dropped huge.Actor Alan Cumming: So sad to hear about the death of Nora Ephron. I worked with her recently and she was kind and funny and fascinating.Director Ron Howard: RIP Nora Ephron brilliant gracious and FUNNYActress Juliette Lewis: So sad to hear bout Nora Ephron. We did a movie called 'Mixed Nuts' when I was 20. She was funny intelligent and loving. One of a kind.Actress Jennifer Grey: Nora Ephron is gone??? Noooo. The inevitable impermanence takes my breath away.Comedian Sarah Silverman: I just heard about Nora Ephron. I'm so sad. A great &amp; prolific writer, a warm &amp; kind soul. Gone just like that.Actress Marlee Matlin: RIP Nora Ephron, unmatched writer and brilliant talent. She will be missed.Actress Debra Messing: Nora Ephron -- what a loss. A magnificent Spirit, and Voice. She changed Romantic Comedy forever. My prayers to her family and friends...Actor Colin Hanks: Nora Ephron was devastatingly funny, extremely witty, and was ALWAYS one of the kindest people I have ever met.Comedian Kevin Nealon: Auditioned for Nora Ephron 20 yrs ago. Didn't get the part but she sent me a thank you note. I'll always remember that and you, Nora.Editor Tina Brown: The wit the warmth the wisdom of Nora Ephron. God how I will miss her.Journalist Robin Roberts: So sad to hear of the passing of Nora Ephron..the incredibly talented writer, director. Boy, did I love her wit. Thinking of her family.Actor Billy Crystal: I am very sad to learn of Nora's passing. She was a brilliant writer and humorist. Being her Harry to Meg's Sally will always have a special place in my heart. I was very lucky to get to say her words.Actress Nicole Kidman: Nora was a joy to be around; she was so smart, warm and funny. I am so grateful that she was my friend and we had the opportunity to work together. My thoughts and love are with her family at this time. I will never forget the dinners, games and laughter we all shared.Albert Brooks, writer and director: R.I.P Nora Ephron. A witty, charming, lovely person.Actor Tom Hanks and his wife, Rita Wilson: Nora Ephron was a journalist/artist who knew what was important to know: how things really worked, what was worthwhile, who was fascinating and why. At a dinner table and on a film set, she lifted us all with wisdom and wit mixed with love for us and love for life.Actor Martin Landau: An amazingly talented girl, who was able to accomplish everything she set her mind to with great style and will be missed enormously.Actress and screenwriter Nia Vardalos: Nora Ephron you helped all writer-girls know to just tell the truth.New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg: From her earliest days at New York City's newspapers to her biggest Hollywood successes, Nora always loved a good New York story, and she could tell them like no one else. The books, movies and plays that she set in the world's greatest city are classics that will be enjoyed for generations, but New York City will miss Nora very much.From the archives: Nora Ephron's best adviceFrom the archives: A story told through clothes and EphronsLove, loss and what Nora ateFemale writers to Nora Ephron: 'I'll have what she's having'Share your stories, images and videos.