^_^Title^_^Expect a warm World Cup welcome in South Africa - but cold weather!^_^Story^_^I know I sound like my mother, but please pack your warm clothes for the World Cup. Remember, it is the middle of winter in the Southern Hemisphere in June and July. I worry that some first-time visitors will assume Africa is hot all the time -- it is not. We have seasons too!Winter in Johannesburg, where I grew up, can be bitterly cold at night, so if you have tickets to a game at Soccer City please remember your sweaters, jackets and woolly hats. Cape Town is windy and rainy in winter, so take waterproof clothing to games there. Durban games will probably be the most comfortable for sun-hungry tourists from the Northern Hemisphere. Durban has a balmy tropical climate and is situated by the Indian Ocean, which means you can lie on the beach and catch a few sun-rays during the winter months. Some people might be disappointed with Cape Town's weather, particularly all those footballers' wives and girlfriends who have rented luxury beachfront villas with infinity pools in Camps Bay for the duration of the World Cup. If games coincide with the nasty spell of winter rain, the WAGS are going to be shivering in their Jimmy Choo sandals. That will mean they, and any other football fans, will just have to visit the Cape's stunning vineyards instead of working on a tan. A few glasses of world-class Stellenbosch or Franschoek wines will make any trip to South Africa worth it. Generally though, the weather forecast for all the nine host cities will fall somewhere in between the extremes of Cape Town in the south and Johannesburg in the north of the country. Mostly, the days are mild and sunny and the nights are chilly. South African buildings do not have double-glazing or an effective heating system, which is why you really feel it when there is a drop in temperature. Here in Africa, houses are constructed to keep rooms cool in the long, hot summers. This is a relief in sweaty December, but it can be staggeringly bracing during cold snaps in the three months of winter. I have often thought my home is colder inside than outside during winter months. During June and July, South Africans often take to bed with extra pairs of socks, thermal pajamas and hot-water bottles to keep themselves warm. No doubt some of those accessories will accompany knowing local football fans into the stadiums for those matches that kick off as late as at 8.30 p.m. Daytime games should be pleasant and warm. South Africans, wearing their fleece jackets and waving flags with gloved hands, will be amused at anyone turning up at a game wearing flip-flops, a string vest and a stripe of white zinc sunblock on their nose. However, whatever the weather during the World Cup, visitors can be guaranteed of a warm South African welcome.Loading weather data ...