^_^Title^_^Kudos for thoughtful fliers with babies ^_^Story^_^Flying with 14-week-old twin boys -- as a passenger or as their parents -- might sound like a nightmare. But a couple reportedly went above and beyond what might be considered necessary to receive a good manners travel award.The following note was attached to a goodie bag of candies and other delights, according to an Internet poster on Reddit on who goes by the handle gigantomachy: "Hello! We're twin baby boys on our first flight and we're only 14 weeks old! We'll try to be on our best behavior, but we'd like to apologize in advance just in case we lose our cool, get scared or our ears hurt.""Our mom and dad (AKA our portable milk machine and our diaper changer) have ear plugs available if you need them. We are all sitting in 20E and 20F if you want come by to get a pair. We hope you have a great flight!"The photo, posted two days ago, already generated more than 1.6 million views. The poster gave many karma points to the parents for the kind gesture. "The parents were fantastic, and the kids were better than would be expected," gigantomachy wrote.CNN tried to contact gigantomachy via Reddit but had not received a response by the time of publication.A guerrilla approach to flying with kids"Mom was super nervous and obviously very tired, but still extremely nice to everyone around her. Not a mean or frustrated word from dad either. Saw them meeting his parents at baggage, who were seeing babies for first time, and got a bit teary."True or not, the note and the accompanying goodies are an inspiration to parents about to travel with potentially screaming children.As a parent who has offered other airline passengers a free drink and carried earplugs for those my child might annoy in flight, I celebrate the parents who go above and beyond to consider the comfort of other passengers.Parents of infants must pack all sorts of equipment and be ready for the slightest scream. Parents of older children should haul a pantry's worth of snacks and a toy store of games to keep the kiddos busy.I've been in your shoes. Even if you fail, the effort is appreciated.Do you have any stories of parents who went the extra mile to make sure you were comfortable in flight? How about travelers who took the time to help an overwhelmed parent? Please share your stories in the comments section below. 