^_^Title^_^Do celebs like Jolie inspire voluntourism?^_^Story^_^It's hard to think about humanitarian travel without picturing Angelina Jolie and other high-profile volunteers. But how much do celebrities contribute to the growing appetite for volunteering away from home and is it all positive?One thing is for sure, in our celebrity-obsessed culture many organizations see a benefit to having celebrities represent their causes.Jolie is a good will ambassador for UNHCR, also known as the United Nations Refugee Agency, and UNICEF has a number of celebrity ambassadors, including Liv Tyler, Sarah Jessica Parker and Clay Aiken.&quot;UNICEF's celebrities have a wide range of talents and achievements, but they all share a commitment to improving the lives of children worldwide,&quot; said Marissa Buckanoff, a spokeswoman for UNICEF. &quot;And in each case a celebrity's association with UNICEF comes about because he or she has already demonstrated that commitment.&quot;But probably the most valuable thing a celebrity can offer is the attention he or she brings to the cause.&quot;When a celebrity goes to another country the media is there,&quot; said Erin Rank, the president and CEO of Habitat for Humanity of Greater Los Angeles, California. &quot;Celebrities help bring the spotlight to the need for shelter with Habitat for Humanity.&quot;Finding volunteer trips that actually helpInternational superstar Ricky Martin made a big impact for Habitat for Humanity when he traveled to Thailand after the tsunami in 2004. &quot;He went to the area and brought enough awareness to the issue to raise funds for 225 homes for families in the region,&quot; Rank said.While celebrities have huge marketing appeal and can bring an incredible amount of awareness to a cause, they're probably not the prime driver for participating in humanitarian travel. &quot;Natural disasters, mainly disasters are probably the biggest push,&quot; said David Clemmons, the founder of VolunTourism.org, which offers news, research, travel suggestions and other resources for anyone interested in volunteer tourism, known as voluntourism. Voluntourism: Pros and consNancy McGehee, an expert on voluntourism research at Virginia Tech, agreed that celebrity involvement is not the most influential reason for volunteer travel.&quot;Research has shown that people are more likely to participate in a volunteer tourism experience if they have the support of their networks -- primarily family, friends and co-workers,&quot; she said. &quot;My guess would be that the approval of those close to you is more important than what any celebrity is doing.&quot;Still, the public's interest in celebrities is a powerful force.Look to the Stars is a website dedicated to following celebrity giving and philanthropic work. &quot;Our main aim is to inspire fans to support charities and causes by following the footsteps of their favorite celebrities,&quot; said Tim Saunders, the features editor and online content manager of the site.The site generates responses from readers who want to know more, Saunders said. &quot;We regularly receive requests from readers about stories featuring celebrities who have traveled to areas for humanitarian purposes,&quot; he said. &quot;Most of them ask how they can become involved on a firsthand basis -- they see what their heroes are doing, and they want to help.&quot;Complete coverage: Humanitarian TravelVolunteering on vacation is without doubt on the rise. &quot;When I started back in 2000, Google didn't have a search term for 'voluntourism.' They would ask you 'did you mean volunteerism,' &quot; said Clemmons.Now when you type in &quot;voluntourism,&quot; you get more than 300,000 hits. &quot;For something that is still very much in its infancy the fact that there is so much interest in it is a very telling thing,&quot; he said.Habitat for Humanity sees the same high interest. &quot;Most of our global village trips are filled throughout the year,&quot; Rank said.When it comes to how much a celebrity's participation prompts others to engage in humanitarian travel, information is lacking. But there is plenty of research from the marketing perspective.&quot;Research in the marketing arena shows that, in general, celebrity endorsements of an event or product is a positive return on investment,&quot; said Kristin Lamoureux, the director of The George Washington University's International Institute of Tourism Studies. &quot;And with tourism destinations as well, celebrity endorsements are generally seen as a good thing,&quot; she said.That being said, there are some risks associated with celebrities.&quot;The uncertainty of celebrities -- think about the Tiger Woods situation,&quot; Lamoureux said. &quot;Would people hold the cause responsible for a mistake a spokesperson made?&quot;Perhaps more pervasive is skepticism of a celebrity's motives. &quot;When you involve celebrities you have to be careful it is not seen as an activity to make the celebrity look good,&quot; Lamoureux said.Perceptions are certainly in play, Clemmons said. &quot;This does have some communications and public image value.&quot;But while the initial reason for some humanitarian trips might be image-based, a celebrity is likely to leave with a stronger passion for the cause, he said.Just like average people feel transformed after an inspiring volunteer experience, so can celebrities. &quot;They have life-changing experiences, too,&quot; Clemmons said.Loading weather data ...