^_^Title^_^'Anthony Bourdain Parts Unknown' social encore: Myanmar ^_^Story^_^While you watch the social encore of "Anthony Bourdain Parts Unknown," you can follow along here for extra information about the people, places and events you're watching on screen. Each of the facts below corresponds to portions of the first episode of "Parts Unknown": Myanmar.- Ma Thanegi is "a painter, contributing editor at the 'Myanmar Times' and editor of the travel magazine 'Enchanting Myanmar.' " She previously served as a personal assistant to political leader Aung San Suu Kyi. When Suu Kyi was put under house arrest, Thanegi was sent to prison.After she was released, she criticized Suu Kyi as well as the democracy movement as a whole. She responded in an interview in 2008: "I know I am not a traitor or a turncoat. I came into the political movement because I wanted to do good for the people. My loyalty lies with the people."- Philippe Lajaunie is the owner of Brasserie Les Halles, which has two locations in New York City. Lajaunie was Anthony Bourdain's boss when he was a chef at Les Halles, before Bourdain became a TV star.Bourdain later wrote the "Les Halles Cookbook," on which he collaborated with Lajaunie. Bourdain now serves as chef-at-large of Les Halles. In addition to being the owner of several restaurants, Lajaunie also is the founder and CEO of several companies ranging from tech to hospitality.11 things to know before visiting Myanmar- Here's how San Zarni Bo was described in a recent profile in "The Irrawaddy": "The affable soothsayer and former political prisoner, who was awarded the prestigious International Man of the Year award in Astrology and Palmistry by the International Biographical Centre in Cambridge, UK, in 1997." As for predictions, he says Aung San Suu Kyi will become president of Myanmar next year.- The shot of the workers in the field wasn't easy to get, mainly because the workers had that day off. Director of photography Morgan Fallon explains: "We got up super early and drove a couple hours in the dark until we figured we were in rice paddies. When we got there, still in the dark, we found out from some people on the road that it was a holiday and that no one would be working in the fields."In the distance we heard music, so we drove down a dirt road towards the sound and ended up at a monastery with huge speakers blaring Burmese festival music. We explained to the head monk who we were, what we were trying to do and the issue we had run up against. He disappeared into the early dawn and returned in 15 minutes with about a dozen field workers."It turns out that he had gone to the local factory and explained our situation and that they had volunteered to come out and work the fields so that we could get our shots. They didn't want money or anything else from us, they simply jumped in to help. We got amazing footage, some of which made it into the show open as well as the episode. After, the monks invited us to the celebration, fed us and allowed us to shoot the whole thing. They also asked for nothing in return, though we made a modest contribution to the monastery as a token of respect."Fall in love with Burmese food- Here's a little information on the city of Bagan (formerly called Pagan) from AncientBagan.com: "Bagan is a plain in the middle of Myanmar, covering a tract of country measuring about 16 square miles along the east bank of the Ayeyarwaddy. The monuments, which are now in all stages of decay, were erected mostly from the 11th to 13th centuries A.D., when Bagan was the seat of the Myanmar dynasty. Tradition carried by the local chronicles has it that a long line of 55 kings ruled over this kingdom during the 12 centuries."There are thousands of temples and pagodas there. More information about the various temples can be found here.