^_^Title^_^8 women on Twitter who will inspire, inform and amuse you^_^Story^_^London With its 140-character gems, your Twitter feed can be inspiring, informative, make you laugh, and even change the way you look at the world ... if you pick the right people to follow.The trouble is there can be a lot of nonsense to trawl through to find the gems.Leading Women has taken on the endless stream of consciousness to find eight women we believe will entertain, inform or inspire you.They are (in no particular order):Kelly Oxford: @kellyoxfordWhy follow her: If nothing else, she'll make you smile. Three years ago, Oxford joined Twitter as a Canadian housewife and mother of three, now she has become a successful TV writer, sold a movie script to WarnerBros and has a book of essays due out with Harper Collins, according to the LA Times.Oxford showcased her comedy writing skills through Twitter and gradually built up an army of fans. She describes herself as "Designed to make you feel like everything is going well."Followers: 430,000Sample tweet: Every New Year my resolution is "Don't die this year." So far, so good.Arianna Huffington: @ariannahuffWhy follow her: Founder of the hugely successful Huffington Post website, launched in 2005 and bought by AOL in 2011, Huffington is one of the world's best-connected women.huff.to/Z1AQlVOriginally from Greece, now a U.S. citizen, Huffington is a prolific tweeter who will help you keep informed.Followers: 1.1 millionSample tweet: New Year's resolutions: not so easy to keep, but very easy to make for other people. Here's my list. And tweet yours! http://huff.to/Z1AQlVOry Okolloh: @kenyanpunditWhy follow her: A Kenyan mother of three girls living in Johannesburg, South Africa, and policy manager for Google Africa.Okolloh tweets on parenting, African issues, technology, books and more.Followers: 39,900Sample tweet: Tried something different this break...only agenda was to do something kids would enjoy everyday, they have declared it best holiday ever.Eve Mayer: @LinkedInQueenWhy follow her: Her twitter name may give you a clue about her expertise. Mayer is a social media strategist and has written a book called The Social Media Business Equation.#marketing. Today's consumers are as savvy as you.Follow her for tips on promoting your business on social media.Followers: 77,400Sample tweet: You can't bombard your Twitter audience with unwelcome #marketing. Today's consumers are as savvy as you.Shelby Knox: @ShelbyKnoxWhy follow her: In 2005, Knox was the 15-year-old subject of a documentary film "The Education of Shelby Knox," which won a Sundance award for its portrayal of her transformation from conservative Southern Baptist to liberal Christian and feminist as she campaigned for sex education in public schools in Lubbock, Texas.Knox, now 25, lives in New York, and describes herself as an itinerant feminist organizer, writer, speaker and revolutionary.Followers: 22,000Sample tweet: Before patriarchy, 13 was considered a lucky number because it represents the Goddess. I'm thinking this is the year we reclaim it, ladies!Lauren Caltagirone: @MrsRupertPupkinWhy follow her: Caltagirone, a Los Angeles-based writer on the NBC comedy "Guys With Kids," uses the Twitter alter-ego @MrsRupertPupkin to tweet about her single life and her cats.Caltagirone told Newsday that she's not really as sad and lonely as her alter-ego, although most of her tweets are based (loosely) on real events.Followers: 70,000Sample tweet: Got a text from a human male last night. Better get started on our wedding playlist.Laura Fitton: @Pistachiopath.com/p/yoeZeWhy follow her: Fitton ought to know a thing or two about Twitter: She co-authored the book "Twitter for Dummies," and spends much of her time persuading business to use Twitter for marketing.Followers: 115,000Sample tweet: Beginnings are scary, endings are usually sad, but it's the middle that counts the most. Try to remember that when you find yourself at a new beginning. Just give hope a chance to float up.Sloane Davidson: @sloane Why follow her: Davidson, who also has a blog called The Causemopolitan, tweets about social causes, the digital world, travel and New York living.Her Twitter blurb makes the grand claim "She was never bored because she was never boring." Follow her to see if you agree.Followers: 11,300Sample tweet: You can't find time for the things you love, you have to make time.