^_^Title^_^At a glance: Supreme Court decision on Arizona's immigration law^_^Story^_^The U.S. Supreme Court ruled largely in favor of the federal government in a case involving Arizona's immigration law (SB1070), striking down most of its key provisions. However, it upheld the most controversial provision involving police checks on people's immigration status while enforcing other laws."The national government has significant power to regulate immigration"-- Justice Anthony KennedyRead the ruling (PDF)Source: Department of Homeland SecurityAlabama's HB56 was signed June 9, 2011. Alabama's legislation requires law enforcement officers to determine immigration status during a lawful stop. Failure to carry alien registration papers is considered a crime in Alabama. Also in Alabama, is it unlawful for unauthorized aliens to solicit or perform work. Key provisions of the law were challenged and taken to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals on October 14, 2011, where they were put on hold until addressed constitutionally.Georgia's HB87 was signed May 13, 2011. In this legislation, police are empowered to investigate the immigration status of certain suspects during lawful stops. June 27, 2011 a federal judge from the US District Court for the Northern District of Georgia temporarily blocked key provisions of the law until it was constitutionally addressed.Indiana's SB 590 was signed May 10, 2011. The legislation allows officers to make a warrantless arrest upon a probable cause belief that the individual has been indicted or convicted of an aggravated felony.South Carolina's S20, signed June 27, 2011, makes it a crime to not carry alien registration papers and makes it unlawful for unauthorized aliens to solicit or perform work.Utah's "Utah Compact" was enacted on March 15, 2011. This package of laws (H116, H466, H469 and H497) includes immigration enforcement, immigrant integration, and a pilot temporary worker visa program.Source: National Conference of State LegislaturesProduced by Alyssa McLendon and Curt MerrillLoading weather data ...