^_^Title^_^A golden celebration for Queen, Prince Philip^_^Story^_^LONDON Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, Prince Philip, celebrated their golden wedding anniversary Thursday with a series of get-togethers in which royalty rubbed elbows with the common folk.On November 20, 1947, Princess Elizabeth, the oldest daughter of King George VI, wed Philip, a distant cousin of the Greek royal house, inside Westminster Abbey. Thursday, the couple returned to the abbey for a thanksgiving service that brought together the largest gathering of royalty since Elizabeth's coronation in 1953.On hand to witness the service were seven kings, 10 queens, a grand duke, 26 princes and 27 princesses. Many were from monarchies, such as Bulgaria and Romania, long since overthrown.Young princes walk abbey aisleThey were accompanied by their father, Prince Charles, the queen's oldest son.Blair, the tenth prime minister to serve during the queen's long reign, invited 350 people from all walks of life to dine with the monarch. He paid tribute to Queen Elizabeth, calling her "unstuffy, unfussy and unfazed by anything."Elizabeth only second monarch to reach 50-year markThe staying power of the queen's marriage stands in sharp contrast to that of other members of the royal family. Her sister and three of her four children have all been divorced."He is someone who doesn't take easily to compliments. But he has, quite simply, been my strength and stay all these years. And I, and his whole family, and this and many other countries, owe him a debt greater than he would ever claim, or we shall ever know," she said, as the guests at the banquet burst into loud applause.Queen: Royals 'must' read public opinionThe queen noted that assessing the public's thinking is difficult, "obscured as it can be by deference, rhetoric or the conflicting currents of public opinion."The queen also looked back on what she called a "remarkable" 50 years for Britain.Turning to the future, the queen said, "I believe that there is an air of confidence in this country of ours just now."Correspondent Richard Blystone and Reuters contributed to this report.