^_^Title^_^Afghan minister: Taliban can be defeated^_^Story^_^The war in Afghanistan is winnable, and corruption will be fought, Interior Minister Hanif Atmar told CNN's Christiane Amanpour on Thursday, as President Hamid Karzai was being sworn in for a second five-year term in Kabul.Atmar said security has improved in some provinces and deteriorated in others, but he's confident the Taliban can be defeated. &quot;We have to show the resolve, the determination, and the ability to make decisions quickly,&quot; he said.He said criticism from Afghanistan's international partners is unhelpful.&quot;We accept part of the blame, but there are also issues that our international friends must also take responsibility for -- the blame game is not going to help.&quot;  His remarks came as U.S. President Barack Obama moved closer to announcing a decision on whether to send as many as 40,000 additional American troops to Afghanistan. The president has been consulting with his top national security advisers for weeks now, a process that has been complicated by the disputed presidential election in Afghanistan and reports of rampant cronyism and graft there. Atmar said Karzai is making the fight against corruption a top priority over the next five years. He said there will be a major crimes task force, a general prosecutor, and a special anti-corruption court.&quot;The government has always been committed. The question has not been the deficit of willpower, the question has always been the resources and an agreed program and priorities,&quot; he added. Atmar's assertion was strongly disputed by former presidential candidate and finance minister Ashraf Ghani. He said the government has become a &quot;looting machine&quot; in which 2,000 people are siphoning off cash.Ghani said the new government must appoint people of integrity and judgment.Of those who are corrupt, Ghani said, &quot;Without government positions they are nothing. As long as they are in control of the government, they will turn it into a force that is a threat to both the international security forces and to the Afghan people.&quot;Asked if Karzai would get rid of corrupt officials, Ghani said, &quot;If he doesn't, then he's going to fail the test of leadership. Kinship and ruling are not compatible.&quot;In our history, those who have built states have to separate themselves from their kin. And unless one meets that test, one cannot rise to become a statesman.&quot;Ghani also strongly criticized the department of Interior Minister Atmar. He said Atmar is a competent man, &quot;but his ministry is among the most corrupt in the country. The police force is a scandal. It has perpetrated immense crime.&quot;The former presidential candidate remained optimistic about the future, though.&quot;I think it's very easy to talk about the place unseen and a people unmet. Most people who come to Afghanistan, Americans in particular, I have had the privilege of hearing them say they've left their heart in Afghanistan.&quot;Ghani also praised the role of international forces in Afghanistan.&quot;There's still a consensus in this society that this is the first army in 5,000 years that has come here not to occupy our land, but to become a force for stability and eventually of prosperity.&quot;Loading weather data ...