^_^Title^_^How Margaret Thatcher's funeral will play out^_^Story^_^London Prime Minister David Cameron's office has released plans for the funeral of Britain's first woman prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, next Wednesday. Here are the details:Where: St. Paul's Cathedral in London. The cortege travels the two miles from the Palace of Westminster to St. Paul's through central London, via The Strand.When: The cathedral doors will open at 9 a.m., and guests are asked to be seated by an hour later. The service is due to start at 11 a.m.Invitations: More than 2,000 invitations are being sent out. They are color-coded. VIP invitations are white, and those guests will be seated under the cathedral dome. A red or green stripe designates port or starboard.Other colors denote specific areas of the cathedral.St. Paul's has a capacity of 2,300 and is expected to be full for the service.Dress code: Decidedly formal, encompassing "full day ceremonial" without swords; morning dress (black waistcoat and black tie) or a dark suit; and for the women a day dress with hat. Those with medals and honors may wear them.On the guest list:-- Family members, including Thatcher's twin children, Carol and Mark-- Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip-- All surviving former British prime ministers-- All surviving former U.S. presidents-- A Ronald Reagan family representative-- A Nelson Mandela family representative-- Former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton-- Former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair and his wife, Cherie-- All surviving members of Margaret Thatcher's Cabinets-- The current UK Cabinet-- First ministers of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland-- Ed Miliband, leader of the opposition Labour Party-- European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso-- Former South African President F.W. de Klerk-- Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper-- Former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney-- Former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia-- Former Prime Minister John Howard of Australia-- Former U.S. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich-- Former UK chiefs of staff-- Peers and members of UK Parliament-- Falklands War veterans-- Archbishop of York John Sentamu-- Broadcaster David Frost-- Actress and author Joan Collins-- Internet pioneer Sir Tim Berners-Lee-- Singer Katherine Jenkins-- Singer Michael Crawford-- Singer Shirley Bassey-- Broadcaster and journalist Andrew Neil-- Advertising magnate Maurice Saatchi-- Conservative Party associatesUnable to attend:-- Former U.S. President George W. Bush-- Former U.S. President George H. W. Bush-- Nancy Reagan, widow of Ronald Reagan-- Mikhail Gorbachev, former Soviet leader-- Prince William and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge-- Prince Harry-- Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of CornwallREAD MORE: Thatcher's legacy in focus as UK plans funeralREAD MORE: UK lawmakers pay tribute to former PM Margaret ThatcherREAD MORE: Why Margaret Thatcher was both icon and outcastCNN's Laura Perez Maestro contributed to this report.